---
layout: single
title:  "Design and Implementation of a Convolutional Neural Network Using
Tensor-Train Decomposition"
date:   2022-01-12 00:43:00 -0500
collection: projects
author_profile: true
toc: true
classes: wide
header:
    teaser: /assets/images/project_CNN.png
---

My graduate project introduces a new formulation of the convolutional layer in neural networks and a new training algorithm using Bayesian inference to address the issue of memory consumption in handling high-dimensional data. The proposed Bayesian TensorNet (BTN) provides a compressed network size and simplifies the computation in the neural network forward process.

# Motivation
In recent years, artificial neural networks (ANNs) have shown great success in various fields, but the use of expensive hardware and long training and inference times limit their application on cheap or portable devices. One solution to this problem is the tensor-train decomposition method, which decomposes a high-order tensor into lower-order tensor cores with fast tensor operations. The method has been used in the past to represent fully connected layers and convolutional layers, but our proposed approach is a more general tensor-train formulation of the convolutional layer that can handle tensors of any dimension and is not limited to matrix-matrix multiplication. This will help to reduce the overall size of the ANN and speed up training and inference time.

# My Contribution
Our new formulation of the convolutional layer is based on the tensor-train decomposition method, which decomposes a high-dimensional tensor into lower-dimensional tensor cores for faster computation. Our novel tensor-train representation of the convolutional layer is more general and versatile than previous methods, allowing for more efficient computation and reducing the overall size of the neural network. Additionally, we trained our network using a Bayesian training algorithm, which is an alternative to the traditional backpropagation algorithm. This approach allowed us to address the issue of memory consumption in handling high-dimensional data, and improve the performance of our network on a plant classification problem. Overall, our contribution is the development of a more efficient and effective tensor-train formulation of the convolutional layer and the use of a Bayesian training algorithm for improved performance.

# Project Details
For more detailed information, please refer to our thesis available online on mspace <a href="https://mspace.lib.umanitoba.ca/handle/1993/36582">Design and implementation of a convolutional neural network using tensor-train decomposition</a>

